In this video,
we're going to test for creating a student.
So our test case that we have
is that we want to create a student in the database.
And what we'll do is we'll send a POST request
to the controller,
and then we'll verify the results
by accessing the data using our DAO.
So at the bottom here,
I have the architecture diagram of our application.
So the POST request
is going to go into the GradeBook Controller
that will make use of the service
that will make use of the DAO
to actually store the information or store that student
in the database.
Then we'll come back separately in our test,
and we'll make use of the DAO directly
and verify that the student really is in the database.
And what we'll do is we'll apply TDD here.
We'll apply test-driven development.
So what we'll do is we'll start
by writing a failing test, right?
So nothing will work.
And then we'll refactor and modify our code
to make our test pass to green.
All right, pretty good stuff.
Let's go ahead and get started.
So moving into our IDE here,
let's go ahead and open up our GradeBookControllerTest,
and what I'd like to do
is make use of a mock servlet request.
So I'll go ahead and create this here,
and I'll make it static,
and I'll discuss the reason for static in a second.
We'll set up this MockHttpServletRequest.
We'll simply call it request.
And then I'll set up this BeforeAll.
So this is a setup annotation that we can use
that will run only once for this given test suite.
So I'll create this MockHttpServletRequest.
So this is an object that we can use
to make mock servlet request,
and I can populate this request with some data.
So I'll set up some parameters here
for firstname, lastname, and email.
So just think of this as a reusable object
that we can make use of
for sending request to a given controller or endpoint.
And then a quick discussion here
on why we had to make it static:
Whenever you make use of the BeforeAll annotation,
the methods must always be static,
and that's simply defined in the JUnit framework.
BeforeAll has to be static. That's a requirement.
And since we're going to use a field inside of that method,
then that given field has to be static.
All right, that's taken care of.
Now let's go ahead and move down here,
and let's write a test.
And this is going to be for creating a student
using an HTTP request,
and we'll post data to a mapping on our controller.
And so then, we'll make use of mvcResult
equals this.mockMvc.perform.
We'll make use of a post request,
and we'll post something over to the / endpoint.
Specify the contentType.
And then we specify the parameters
for firstname, lastname, and email.
So we specify the name-value pairs.
So the name of the parameter is firstname,
and then the value, I simply make use of that request
and say request.getParameterValues
and specify whatever item that I want,
so in this case firstname.
And then I simply repeat the process
for lastname and emailAddress.
And now let's go ahead and fix
this red piece here with the post.
Be sure to make an import
here on MockMvcRequestBuilders.post
that's in the request package.
And then one last thing we'll do
is we'll add an additional paren after emailAddress,
and now we can do our dot,
and then we can set up our expectations.
We say andExpect that the status is okay.
And then we finally do andReturn.
So effectively here,
that will perform a post to that given endpoint,
and we pass in the parameters for that post.
And then we can access the ModelAndView
by saying mvcResult.getModelAndView.
And now I simply want to perform an assertion.
I'll make use of this ModelAndViewAssert,
and I assertViewName,
pass in the ModelAndView, comma, index.
We've seen some of this coding before.
All right, so we can zoom out a bit.
Let's go ahead and run this test.
And the test failed.
Okay, hmm, interesting.
Let's go and investigate, find out why this test failed.
So just scrolling down a bit here,
and it says Expected: 200, Actual: 405.
Alrighty, so this test fails with the error code of 405
which means Method not allowed,
and you're probably wondering why.
Well, we haven't implemented the POST mapping
in our GradebookController yet.
That code's missing. It's kind of incomplete.
And so actually, this is kind of the TDD in action,
test-driven development in action.
We wrote a failing test,
and then we modified the code to make the test pass.
All right, so that's the idea. So this is kind of expected.
We'll write some code in the next video
to kind of clean things up
and give it to a green passing test.
Alrighty, so hang tight, and I'll see you in the next video.